Logical formula it's something that is made up from statements that means from others say Z and from
logical connects.
Yeah.
And also prentices.
So for example logical formula can look like this negation ne implies B.
It's equivalent with A or B and every formula is either tautology.
That means no matter what logical value A and B have for every logical value the formula will result
in to true or former can be satisfiable and formalized satisfiable if it is true under at least one
interpretation of A and B.
And last one is a contradiction.
And that means formalize false no matter what logic a value A and B have.
So how do you find out what kind of formula we have here.
We all use table.
So the arguments are A and B and we will consider every possible scenario.
Now let's look at our formula and you can kind of split it into smaller parts.
Right.
Compute these smaller parts and then put the result together.
So on the right side we have a or b and on their side we have negation they implies B.
So let's compute leftside first.
I recommend compute negation a first and then compute implication of negation A and B.
So let's do this as you already know negation flips that.
So where A is zero negation of A will be won.
And where is one negation of they will be zero.
Like this.
So now let's compute implication of negation A and B.
And we know that implication results into false only a first operand is true and second one is false.
So if we look at our table we can see that this line will be false right.
Because negation of AA is true and B is false by all the other lines will be true.
So we have compute our left side.
Now let's compute the right side.
This one is easier.
We just do.
Or over a and b.
So Or is false when both operands are false.
And that happens only in the first row.
All the other rows will be true.
So now.
So now let's put the left side and right side together.
We have equivalence between them.
So that means that you of leftside is same as right side we get true otherwise false.
That if you look at this table you can see that negation ne implies B is the same as say or B.
So this formula will be true no matter what.
A and B are.
So this formula is a tautology.
Now I want you to try this on your own with these two formulas.
The first one has only negation in front of or.
So that means you do negation of the result of this or operation.
And this formula should be contradiction.
That means falles everywhere and the second one looks like this.
So instead of or is send and this one should be satisfied.
And it should be 1 0 0 1.
So try this on your own.
And if you get stuck just posed the question now from this first example.
You might notice that it tells us something.
This formula is tautology and that means left side is equal to right side.
And that means we can use negation and implication instead of our.
And now I'm going to tell you a secret we can use negation and implication instead of and two and instead
of Lachlan's two.
So in order for us to write any formula we need only negation and implication as you saw in the first
example.
Negation A implies B is equivalent to A or B.
Negation ave implies negation of B is equivalent to A and B.
And equivalence is a bit complicated.
It is negation of they implies B that implies negation of B implies they and that is the same as if
you write A is equivalent to B.
You can't try to prove it like I did in the first example.
It should always be tautology.
OK.
That is pretty much it for this lecture.
If you have any questions feel free to ask.
I suggest you play with these and if you get stuck feel free to post the question.
I will be there to help you and I will see you next time.